Overview
Need for high-level understanding of significance of FFV1 (less necessary for MKV) (first two groups) (this is pros but also acknowledging cons)
Matroska's technical weaknesses (that which is ambiguous, for devs and archivists both -- maybe phrase not as a weakness but as something requiring disambiguation)
Funding (preforma, local [as in regional] funding networks) / advocacy (outside but also internally, within orgs) / outreach (this is a different category but being ok with writing bad code and releasing it publicly, comfortable asking for and getting help, and more workshops where its safe to fail, "empowerment")
Kieran's group is kinda focused on building or ensuring creation of tools that facilitate not just archivists but filmmakers actively making films so that if the original source can be something archive-worthy, then that's good
"shotcut, vlc, natron, virtual dub, avi demux. VL MC Avid Sorenson Squeeze" Adobe Premiere plugin needs to happen so import/export in ffv1 is fine
Experimental: RGB DPX FFV1 (Reto and Ranggi)


Kieran K IGOR -> FFV1 (translate to Executive Speak) 
PETER! -> FFV1/MKV recommendations/policy criteria for archives
Michael/Steve -> Matroska/EBML specification \\
Kieran O:) -> Idea to review ffv1 support in editing software blog post
Bert -> Archival funding/outreach/advocacy

HI, What did you talk about?

Kieran K IGOR -> FFV1 (translate to Executive Speak) 
  Thanks Peter for buying ffv1.org!!!!
  Let's copy mongodb's exec summary for ffv1 buzz!
  1. so fast, so efficient, lossless, stable, description, "industry" standard ????
  2. checksum before you wrecksum
  3. get cliche
  4. Later, ask Ashley to make a logo. Make the logo bigger!
  5. Adopt the worst of marketing strategies


PETER! -> FFV1/MKV recommendations/policy criteria for archives

  Scan the paper.
  Let's also fail?
  The boss is mad, what do we say?
  Pros for ffv1+mkv.
    It's lossless, container is lossless except for timecodes and captions
    Immortal media.
    No expectations of better are valid.
    Obsolescence inversion.
    "Well..." supported or not?
    Standardization in progress, join us.
    Less e-waste with lossless.
    Who else is doing this?
    For archives, and some archivists participate in design. Participatory and inclusive design.
    EU > $$$$
    Exchangability
    Cost effective
    Edit without loss, migrate without loss.
    "it's true yes but...."
    archival decisions use acknowledged risk
    built in fixity
    adoption tipping point
    facilitates automated workflows, microservice approaches
    let's make a list of recommendations
      add credibility from users
      who's 100% interoperable? No one.
      ffv1 is interoperable despite specification 

  Cons for ffv1+mkv.
    larger than lossy. Ain't lossy good nuff? How bout dvds?
      Georg will support all the pixel formats!!!!!! 16 bit RGB, and 256 bit ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ

  What up with ffv1+mkv. I heard about IMF, J2k, and realvideo. Magic eight ball for codec selection.

Michael/Steve -> Matroska/EBML specification \\
Tobias -> Coding history within files, types of attachments/metadata within the file
  "So yeah...we mostly talk"
  giggle fest
  CELLAR list is going to be busy next week
  Matroska's weakness, the timestamp management strategy, How to fix with backwards compatibility?
  We will not be intimidated by timestamp issues.
  Should define management of coding history and generational data in Matroska
  First clean your room and then get the new stuff
  Move webm encryption elements upstream to Matroska
  Define method for sample accurate seeking and define resolution of contradictions in audio sample reference strategies.
  Need more documentation on duration-based concepts within Matroska.
  Review definitions of Segment Linking strategies
  220 pages is going to get bigggggger
  B frames, B problems
  Cellar is gonna get trolled


Bert -> Archival funding/outreach/advocacy

  Hi Bert!!
  1. Funding
    EU vs US funding schemes
    Thanks PREFORMA!
    EU funding benefits from protection from markets. Right UK?
    Advantages of local funding networks, accessibility of funding by organizing and advocacy
    What next? What to ask in next funding opportunity?

  2. Advocacy

    #evenlesstimetowait
    Advocacy within orgs via traversality (sp?). Find dept collaboration with other colleagues on the same level.
    FFV1 as hypothetical problem. Challenges to even consider such options.

  3. Outreach

    Don't be afraid. Write broken code and try to fix it. We'll help you.
    Workshops for archivist empowerment. Training as essential for archivist development.

Kieran O:) -> Idea to review ffv1 support in editing software blog post

  Reto/Georg News: contact with MiNi
  If you could talk to your NLE, what would you say?
  Shout outs for shotcut, vlc, natron, virtual dub, avi demux. VL MC is coming back! Adobe, help us out.
  Says Georg, ffv1 export? No problem.
  Peter documenting ffv1 support on wikipedia, please add more.
  Can Avid Media Composer read it? Do we believe Peter? Maybe.
  Sorenson Squeeze is ffmpeg in disguise.
  Marion already did all of this work.
  Embedding filter hints in editing lossless files?
  Ranggi/Reto are experimenting with RGB DPX FFV1. Blog post coming next week.
  Testing criteria: OS? support various pixel format? export opts? keyboard shortcuts? fill the issue trackers
  Segmentation with ffmpeg? Skip the NLE and direct to ffmpeg.
  Use of chapters to guide mkv splitters







